Initial docs for log restoration (#32)
banzaicloud/one-eye-docs: docs/logs-events/log-restoration/index.md

---
title: Restore archived logs
shorttitle: Restore logs
weight: 600
---

The log restoration feature of One Eye allows you to retrieve a set of logs into an Elasticsearch instance where you can browse and analyze them. This is useful for example in auditing and troubleshooting situations.

## Prerequisites

> - Restoring logs is supported only from S3 output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restoring logs is supported only from S3 outputs
```

> - The elastic operator must be installed on the cluster running One Eye

Reviewer: Maybe, we shoud link to the operator:
```suggestion
- The [Elastic operator](https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s) must be installed on the cluster running One Eye
```
Also, could note that One Eye can be used to easily install the operator: https://banzaicloud.com/docs/one-eye/cli/reference/one-eye_elasticsearch_install/

> - The cluster running One Eye must have enough resources to store the restored logs, and deploy an Elastic instance. The exact requirements depend on the amount of logs to be restored.

Reviewer: 👌🏻

## Restore logs

To restore archived log messages, complete the following steps.

1. [Open the One Eye web interface]({{< relref "/docs/one-eye/quickstart/_index.md#display-the-logging-flow" >}}).
1. Select **MENU > LOG RESTORATION**, then click ![Create new icon](/docs/one-eye/headless/icon-create-new.png).
    ![Restored logs list](restored-logs-list.png)

> 1. Click ![Create new icon](/docs/one-eye/headless/icon-create-new.png). The Log Restoration Wizard opens.

Reviewer: Isn't the `Create new icon` part duplicated here?

    ![Log Restoration Wizard](log-restoration-output.png)
1. Select the output from which you want to restore logs, then click **Next**.
1. Select the cluster and the time interval for which you want to restore logs.
    ![Log Restoration Wizard](log-restoration-cluster.png)
1. To specify the details of the logs to be restored on the UI, select **Simple Builder**. Alternatively, you can select **Advanced Builder**, and paste a [JSON that describes the logs to restore](#builder-json).

> 1. To restore the logs of only specific namespaces, pod, and containers, search for the name of the respective resource, and select the ones you need. If you want to restore the logs of every resource, select **Any**. Note that searching for the resources returns only exact matches, unless you include the * wildcard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To restore the logs of only specific namespaces, pods, and containers, search for the name of the respective resource, and select the ones you need. If you want to restore the logs of every resource, select **Any**. Note that searching for the resources returns only exact matches, unless you include the `.*` wildcard.
```

    ![Filter logs to restore](log-restoration-namespace.png)

> 1. Set a prefix for the Elastic index. In addition to using it as a prefix for the Elastic index, the Elastic resources are named after this parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set a prefix for the Elastic index. In addition to using it as a prefix for the Elastic index, currently the Elastic resources are named after this parameter.
```
To convey that this might (i.e. should) change in the future.

    ![Set Elastic parameters](log-restoration-configuration.png)

> 1. Set the namespace where the log restoration job will run. The Elastic instance is also deployed into this namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set the namespace where the Elastic instance will be deployed to. The log restoration job is also run in this namespace.
```

1. Before restoring the logs starts, review the settings of the process. If everything is as you intended, click **Next**.
    ![Log Restoration overview](log-restoration-overview.png)
1. One Eye starts restoring the logs. Depending on the amount of logs to restore, this can take a long time.
    ![Log Restoration overview](log-restoration-progress.png)
1. After the job is successfully completed, you can [access the restored logs](#access-logs).

## Access restored logs {#access-logs}

> To tail your logs, or the logs that match a specific query in real-time, complete the following steps.

Reviewer: I either misunderstand what you're trying to say or it's just wrong. These are not real-time logs.
```suggestion
To view your restored logs, complete the following steps.
```

1. [Open the One Eye web interface]({{< relref "/docs/one-eye/quickstart/_index.md#display-the-logging-flow" >}}).

> 1. Select **MENU > LOG RESTORATION**. This page the log restoration jobs and their details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **MENU > LOG RESTORATION**. This page shows log restoration jobs and their details.
```

    ![Restored logs list](restored-logs-list.png)

> 1. Click the ID of a set of logs. The access details of the logs is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the ID of a restoration job. The details for accessing the logs are displayed.
```

    ![Restored logs details](restored-logs-details.png)
1. Click the URL to open the Elasticsearch service where the logs are available, and use the username and password to access them (click the eye icon to display the password).

## Delete the restored logs

> To delete the restored logs and/or the Elastic instance from the One Eye cluster, you must delete the related resources manually. The Elastic resources are named after the **Index prefix** parameter of the restored logs, and run in the namespace specified in the configuration of the log restoration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're done analysing the restored logs, you can either: 

- deleted the restored logs from Elasticsearch, or
- delete the whole Elasticsearch instance from the One Eye cluster.

Currently, the latter can only be performed manually, by deleting the Elasticsearch resource from the cluster. The Elasticsearch resource is named after the **Index prefix** parameter and exists in the namespace specified for the restoration job.
```

> <!-- FIXME operator/cli mode link or description -->

Reviewer: Are you looking for a CLI command to delete the Elastic instance? If so: `kubectl delete elasticsearch -n <namespace> <index prefix>`

## Advanced builder JSON scheme {#builder-json}

> When selecting **Advanced Builder**, you can specify which logs you want to restore in a JSON object. The JSON has three fields, all of them are optional: **namespaces**, **pods**, and **containers**. Each field can contain a list of RE2 regular expressions that match the names of namespaces, pods, or containers to select. Note that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When selecting **Advanced Builder**, you can specify which logs you want to restore in a JSON object. The JSON has three fields, all of them are optional: **namespaces**, **pods**, and **containers**. Each field can contain a list of [RE2](https://github.com/google/re2/wiki/Syntax) regular expressions that match the names of namespaces, pods, or containers to select. Note that:
```

> - If a list is empty, or set it to *null*, it matches every possible value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a field is not set, set to `null`, or set to an empty list, it matches every possible value.
```
